# QAIA4MOO
This repository implements noise-injected Simulated Bifurcation (NI-SB) solvers for multi-objective optimization.

## Files Overview

- **`NI_SB_gpu.py`**: Implements the noise-injected Simulated Bifurcation algorithm using **float32** precision.
- **`NI_SB_gpu_half.py`**: Same as above but uses **float16** precision.
- **`main.py`**: Script to run the SB solvers on benchmark instances. The output is ``all_plot/raw_data``
- **`heuristics.py`**: Script to evaluate and compare the performance of the NI-SB methods against classical evolutionary algorithm-based solvers. The output is ``all_plot/vsdata.npy``

## Data

The benchmark instances used in the first experiment are taken from the following works:
- *King, A.D. Multi-objective optimization by quantum annealing. arXiv:2511.01762 (2025).*
- *Kotil, A., Pelofske, E., Riedmüller, S. et al. Quantum approximate multi-objective optimization. Nat Comput Sci 5, 1168–1177 (2025).*

The benchmark instances for end-to-end comparison with heuristic algorithms are generated by ``utils/instance_generator.py``, following ideas from work 
- *De Santis M, L´etocart L, Zhang Y. Quadratic convex reformulations for multiObjective binary 
quadratic programming. Journal of Global Optimization. 2026*

## Acknowledgements
- The data files in the all_plot/data_QA directory are derived from the QuantumAnnealingMOO project. These files are licensed under the Apache License 2.0. QuantumAnnealingMOO project: https://github.com/andrew-d-king/QuantumAnnealingMOO.
## Usage

1. To solve a problem instance:
   ```bash
   python main.py
2. To compare SB solvers with evolutionary algorithms:
    ```bash
    python heuristics.py
3. To regenerate data for parts of Figure 3:
    ```bash
    python noise_enhancement.py  
    python sample_size.py 
4. To reproduce all figures and Table 2 in the main text:
    ```bash
    run all_plot/Fig1.ipynb
    run all_plot/Fig2.ipynb
    run all_plot/Fig3.ipynb
    run all_plot/Table2.ipynb

